---
layout: "../layouts/uses.astro"
---



Folks have been asking on my live streams about what software or gear I use for
work.


Here you can find both the hardware and software I use. Things change often,
but I try my best to keep this list up to date.


By the way, **most links are affiliate.** If you click and buy one of my gear,
a small ka-ching will happen in my bank account.

## Audio

- My main microphone is [Shure SM7B](https://amzn.to/3H4Hr9p). I don't think 
I'll ever need a different dynamic microphone. It's a dynamic XLR microphone 
used by big names in the music industry like Michael Jackson and Metallica.

- I've got my microphone mounted on the [RØDE PSA1](https://amzn.to/43LYmqO).
This is a good arm that feels premium and can support heavier microphones.

- Since the SM7B is a gain hungry microphone, I'm using the [Triton Audio 
FetHead](https://amzn.to/41An4ZN) to give it some gain without introducing a 
lot of noise in the sound. An alternative to this would be a Cloudlifter, but I
like the Fethead because it's an inline preamp, meaning I don't need two XLR 
cables to have it connected between the microphone and the audio interface.

- The mic is connected to my [RØDECaster Pro](https://amzn.to/43LYmqO) with an 
XLR cable. This is an audio interface that converts the analog audio to 
digital. It's a podcasting machine, so it has a number of inputs on it. But it
is pretty big. [I reviewed it](/blog/rodecaster-pro-review). It has all the 
audio effects you need so you don't need additional audio equipment like a 
compressor or noise gate or anything like that. I have this connected to my 
laptop via a USB-C cable.

- Since the audio interface is pretty big, I mounted it on my table on a [Vivo 
Laptop Stand](https://amzn.to/3V0bowM). It clears up a big portion of my desk 
and it also looks pretty cool. You can see a photo in my review blog I mentioned
above.

- I also have the [RØDE NT-USB](https://amzn.to/43RALoK) and [Audio Technica 
ATR2100X](https://amzn.to/3N0ScNL) microphones. The RØDE was my first ever 
microphone so I used it when I started live streaming. I got the Audio Technica
as a gift from [Egghead.io](https://egghead.io) when I joined their platrform 
as an instructor.
